* COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2006, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
	
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.



* INTRODUCTION

Thank you for using MH-E 8.4, the newest release of the GNU Emacs
front end for MH. This file contains installation directions; the
release notes contain important information regarding this release. We
encourage you to read these documents before using the software. The
release notes for all versions are packaged with MH-E in a file called
MH-E-NEWS.

Emacs comes prepackaged with MH-E; the files in this package may be
more recent however. To ascertain the version of MH-E in your version
of Emacs and to determine whether it is necessary to install these
files, run the command `M-x mh-version' within Emacs. If this package
contains a more recent version of MH-E, read on.

MH-E is built into Emacs, so if you check out the Emacs source, then
you have no need of this release. You are already running the bleeding
edge.

This version of MH-E will appear in GNU Emacs 24.4 (unless MH-E is
superseded by a newer version before Emacs is released). It is
supported in GNU Emacs 23 and higher, as well as XEmacs 21.4.22
and 21.5.31. MH-E is known not to work with GNU Emacs versions 20 and
below, and XEmacs version 21.5.9 - 21.5.16. It is compatible with MH
versions 6.8.4 and higher, all versions of nmh, and GNU mailutils 1.0
and higher. Gnus is also required; version 5.10 or higher is
recommended.



* INSTALL

** Extract the tarball.

If you don't have GNU tar, use gzip to uncompress the tarball and drop
the `z' option.

    tar xzf mh-e-8.4.tgz

** Compile.

It is suggested, but not required, to compile MH-E. To do so, run
`make' in the distribution directory:

    cd mh-e-8.4
    make

If you run Emacs by any name other than `emacs', use the following
instead:

    cd mh-e-8.4
    make EMACS=myemacs

For example, Mac users might have to use something like:

    make EMACS=/Applications/DarwinPorts/Emacs.app/Contents/MacOS/Emacs 

If `M-x mh-version' shows that your compile- and run-time versions of
Gnus are different, then it is likely that you compiled with the wrong
version of Emacs.

Note that the Makefile assumes an XEmacs variant if `xemacs' appears
somewhere in the command name. Otherwise, it is assumed that GNU Emacs
is being used.

** Place these files in your load path.

Add something like the following to your .emacs:

    (add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/mh-e-8.4/emacs/trunk/lisp/mh-e"))

XEmacs users will also have to add this as well:

    (add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/mh-e-8.4"))

** Enable the entry points into MH-E as autoloads.

The MH-E entry points are predefined in Emacs 22 and higher. If you
are using Emacs 21, which contains old autoload definitions,
you *must* add the following to your .emacs to get the updated
definitions:

    (require 'mh-autoloads)

If you want to customize MH-E before explicitly loading it, you may
optionally add the following to your .emacs as well:

    (require 'mh-cus-load)

** Read the commentary at the top of mh-e.el.

** Read the release notes in MH-E-NEWS.

This is particularly important if you're already using MH-E and the
major version number has changed. We don't bump major version numbers
in MH-E for marketing reasons; it always means incompatible
improvements were made.



* BAZAAR MH-E INSTALL

After checking out the src module, you must run `make emacs' or just
`make' to check out Emacs, which includes MH-E proper, from Savannah.
Then follow the steps that apply to you in INSTALL above.

Developers should run `make emacs-devel' which checks out Emacs using
the $USER environment variable as their Savannah login.



* ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

** Documentation

Documentation comes in the form of a manual which comes in the
following forms:

*** info

The info pages can be found by running the following command within
Emacs:

    C-h i m mh-e RET

If the version of the manual that you get doesn't match this version
of MH-E, download the latest version of the manual. See below.

*** HTML & PDF

An online version of the documentation is available here:

    http://mh-e.sourceforge.net/manual/

*** Source

The source for the documentation can be obtained here:

    https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=13357

With the source, you can build the Info pages, HTML, and PDF.

** Mailing Lists, Bug Reports and Other Support

Please read the commentary at the top of `mh-e.el'. Visit
http://mh-e.sourceforge.net/ !


Local variables:
mode: outline
paragraph-separate: "[ 	]*$"
end:
